# Assignment 0

Welcome to COMP 426 - *Modern Web Programming*. The purpose of this is assignment is to get you familiar with the tools that we will be using for the rest of the semester as well as the assignment submission process.

In total, there will be 11 programming assignments including this one. All assignments will be released on the first day of class, but the due dates for each are spread throughout the semester.

These assignments were specifically designed to augment the material you learn in class. Some assignments will introduce important new material that isn't directly covered in class. To be successful in COMP 426, it is therefore crucial to keep up with submitting assignments on time. Historically, students who fall behind in the assignments tend to struggle in class; similarly, students who miss class tend to struggle when completing assignments.

To ensure that assignments are completed and submitted on time, a significant late penalty will be applied to all late submissions. Furthermore, the COMP 426 LAs have been instructed not to give help on late assignments. The only avenue for getting help on a late assignment is to schedule an appointment with the graduate TA Aaron Smith or the head LA Chris Burgess. **No credit will be given for submissions more than 14 days late**.

This semester, most of the assignments will be autograded, meaning you will get near-instant feedback about your grade as you are working. You may resubmit autograded assignments as many times as you wish, so feel free to keep trying until you get it right. However, manually graded assignments will only be graded one time; you will only receive a score for manually graded assignments after the due date.

**Working with other students on assignments is strictly prohibited**. In addition to the assignments, COMP 426 also requires a term project which will offer ample opportunities for collaborating with other students to design and build a web app. The flip side of this is that you must work individually on assignments. Additionally, be careful that you do not submit any code that you did not personally write. **Submitting copied code from others or from the internet may result in your submission being flagged by the system for cheating**.

*Note that this assignment is only graded for completion. The last section will cover how to submit and check that you have received a 100% score.*


## 1. Install Required Software

Below are two links that guide you through the process of installing the required software for this course. This software must be installed on your computer not only so you can complete the assignments, but also so you can receive help in office hours. We recommend using Visual Studio Code as your code editor, but if you are willing to sign up for a (free) student license, then [WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/) is also a good choice.

### Windows
If you have a PC running Windows, follow the [Windows setup guide](resources/a00/software-pc).

### Mac
If you have a Mac running OSX, follow the [Mac setup guide](resources/a00/software-mac).


## 2. Set Up Workspace

Once you have installed the required software, the next step is to download and install a code package designed specifically for COMP 426. This package contains the following features:
- An organized directory structure with subdirectories for every assignment you will complete throughout the semester
- Starter code to give you a head start on some of the assignments
- A command-line tool for automatically submitting assignments to the autograder straight from Visual Studio Code

### 2.1 Clone the COMP 426 GitHub Repository

The course-specific code package is hosted online in a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/onsmith/comp426-cli). The first step is to "clone" (aka download) the code to your computer. There are many ways to clone a GitHub repository to your computer---and you may be familiar with this process from prior classes. For instance, you may have experience cloning code using [GitHub Desktop Client](https://desktop.github.com/). If you want to use one of these This guide assumes that this is your first time cloning a GitHub repository, and walks you through the process from the command line.
  
*If you are unfamiliar with the command line don't worry. We are going to be walking you through every command used to be successful in this class. If you want further explanations on some of the commands we use or want to learn more check out the [linux commands cheat sheet](https://www.linuxtrainingacademy.com/linux-commands-cheat-sheet/).*
  
Open <abbr title="Powershell on windows">terminal</abbr> and `cd` to a place on your computer where you want to store your assignments.
```bash  
$ cd CodeProjects  
```  
Once there, clone the repository and open the directory with the following commands.  
```bash  
$ git clone https://github.com/onsmith/comp426-cli.git  
$ cd comp426-cli/  
$ ls  
```  
When we run the `ls` command now, it should list out directories where we will be placing all of our code for future assignments.   
  
### 2.2 Time to Initialize  
  
So at this point our terminal is inside the directory `../comp426-cli/`. Before we do anything else we need to make sure it is ready for us to work in and more importantly, handle submissions. We are going to do this by running the following command:  
```bash  
$ npm install  
```  
*This may take some time complete depending on your internet speed so give it time to finish.*  
  
This tells <abbr title="Node Package Manager">npm</abbr> to check our `package.json` file and install all the dependencies listed there. You will learn more about npm in a future assignment.  
  
## 3. Demo 

Now that we have everything setup lets go ahead and run through a quick demo to make sure everything works and we are able to submit. **All you need to do is follow along and copy and paste to receive full credit.**

### 3.1 Initialize a00

1. We are going to start by opening up VSCode. Then `File -> Open...` and choose the `comp426-cli` folder that was cloned in part 2.
2. If the explorer isn't already open, go ahead open that. It is the [top left icon on the left side bar](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cgburgess/comp426-md/master/assignments/resources/a00/open-explorer.png).
3. `Right click on a00 -> Open in Terminal`. The prompt should now look something like this:
```bash
your-computer-name:a00 yourname$ 
```
The import thing here is **a00**. This means that all the commands you run and packages you install will only apply to the contents of the a00 folder. 

*Now and in the future, make sure you are always running commands inside the assignment folder and NOT in the root folder (submitting assignments is different).*

5. Now run `npm init` and press enter through all the prompts.

At this point a00 should now have a `package.json` with the following code:

```json
{
  "name": "a00",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "index.js",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC"
}
```
### 3.2 Install live-server
Inside our terminal we are going to run a command that is going to install a 3rd party package.
```bash
$ npm i live-server
```
- npm: The package manager from node
- i: install
- live-server: The name of the thing to install

Now that [live-server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/live-server) is installed to a00 by npm, we are ready to start copy-pasting!

### 3.3 HTML
We are going to need some html. `Right click on a00 -> New File` and name it `index.html`.

Paste in the following and save it:
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>  
<html lang="en">  
<head>  
 <meta charset="UTF-8">  
 <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">  
 <title>Assignment 0 test!</title>  
</head>  
<body>  
<div>  
 <h1>Looking good!</h1>  
 <p>Go ahead and edit me.</p>  
</div>  
</body>  
</html>
```

### 3.3 Run live-server
Now that we have our simple HTML file its time to see if things actually work. With your terminal still inside the a00 folder, go ahead and run the following command.
```bash
$ npx live-server
```
*npx is not a typo, it is a command used to run locally installed tools like live-server.*

A browser window should have opened. If not, start chrome and go to [http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/). You should see the text inside the `<h1> </h1>` and `<p> </p>` now being rendered on the website.

### 3.4 Edit Some HTML
At this point, we are going to go ahead change some of our HTML. When we save we should see the webpage automatically reload and reflect that changes. This makes development easier and faster. Get used to this workflow because it is an industry standard and it should make A1 much easier!

Change line 14 from:
```html
<p>Go ahead and edit me.</p>
```
to:
```html
<strong>Almost done I promise.</strong>
```
Press save and watch the webpage reload and reflect our new changes.

## 4. Submit    
 TODO
