

# a01

In this assignment, we will create a set of HTML pages that are styled using CSS.

These pages should describe a mythological character or mythological story. The term "mythological" can be broadly interpreted and can be from any culture or time period (Greek, Roman, Aztek, Norse, Asian) or even a very loose interpretation as in describing the "mythological" 1982 Big Game between Cal and Stanford. The content doesn't really matter. You are encouraged to use images and video but aren't required to do so.

> For ease of development, you are encouraged to use the [live-server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/live-server) npm plugin from assignment 0. Remember that all of your work (and commands) should be done inside of the a00 folder in your workspace. 


## Requirements

The only real requirements for this assignment are these:

1. There should be a single logical "starting" web page.
2. There should be at least 3 pages. There is no maximum limit of pages, but don't go crazy.
3. There should be links that navigate between the pages
4. All of the pages should use the same CSS stylesheet


At a minimum, your stylesheet should:

1. Have at least 10 selectors
2. Use two or more fonts for different kinds of content
3. Set the background color of some elements, specifying the color by hex notation
4. Set the border of some elements
5. Use the :hover pseudo-class for one or more elements
6. Use at least one class-based selector
7. Use at least one id-based selector
8. Have at least one selector rely on the hierarchical relationship between two elements
9. Use width and/or height to control the geometry of an element
10. Validate as CSS3 using the W3C CSS validation tool (see link below)

Other than these basic features, feel free to use whatever CSS3 attributes you would like. 


## Validation

The W3C CSS Validation tool can be found here:

http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/

The HTML files should validate as HTML 5. The W3C HTML validation tool can be found here:

http://validator.w3.org/

Minor warnings about browser incompatibility are OK.


## Turning In The Assignment

Create a directory in your class web space called "a1". Put all files including any resources like images or videos in this directory.
The main starting HTML file should be called "a1.html".
The CSS file should be called "a1.css".
Any image or video files should be in this directory also.

Please use these exact directory and file names (capitalization counts).


## Disclaimer

Do not use any CSS preprocessors or libraries (e.g., Bootstrap, etc.), JavaScript, or server-side programming.
