# Assignment 4


The previous assignment gave you practice writing functions and manipulating data in JavaScript. Now it's time to use these JavaScript skills to generate HTML content dynamically on a web page.

In lecture, we've been learning how to use jQuery and JavaScript to generate and insert new HTML elements directly into the DOM. For this assignment, you will be writing code to (1) take as input some data (just like in a03), (2) convert that data to HTML elements, and (3) insert the elements in the DOM. The result is a web page with content that was generated dynamically by JavaScript based on given input data.


## 1. Getting started

1. Open Visual Studio Code and take a look at the a04 assignment directory.

2. You should see one HTML file and two linked JavaScript files. Open these files and get a feel for the contents. You'll notice that there are no CSS files included, and the HTML file is empty besides a single `<div id="root"></div>` element.

* **index.html** - a basic HTML file with no content except a single empty `<div>`
* **data.js** - defines an array of data that will be used to generate content for index.html
* **render.js** - this is where you will insert code to generating and inserting content into index.html

4. Open a terminal in the a04 assignment directory and initialize a new npm project using `npm init`.

5. Install the packages `bulma` and `jquery` to the project using `npm install` (refer to a02 if you need to review installing packages with npm).

6. In the `<head>` of the HTML document, add a link to Bulma's CSS code (located at `node_modules/bulma/css/bulma.css`.

7. Also add a link to jQuery's JavaScript code (located at `node_modules/jquery/js/jquery.js`.


## 2. Requirements

The goal of this assignment is to use JavaScript + jQuery to programmatically generate an HTML `<form>` and an HTML `<table>`, both of which display data taken from a JavaScript object.

* The provided code includes "TODO" comments everywhere that you will have to make changes.

* `renderAnimalTable()` and `renderAnimalEditForm()` must not modify the DOM and should only return new detached DOM elements.

* Your code should still work if the number of animals in `animalData` changes or if the values of individual animal fields change.

* The animal edit form must include names and fields for every animal field ("name", "type", "color", "age", and "birthday")

* Make sure you add some Bulma classes to both the form and the table elements to improve the overall page aesthetic.