# Assignment 8

This assignment is a tutorial in which we will write JavaScript code to make the browser send HTTP AJAX requests and receive the server's response. We'll use a third-party library called [Axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) to help us formulate the HTTP requests, send them, wait for them to finish, and process the response. Finally, we'll run the code we write directly in the Google Chrome browser and view the requests we make through Chrome's DevTools window.


## 1. Getting Started

1. Open Visual Studio Code and take a look at the a08 assignment directory.

2. You should see one HTML file (`a08/index.html`), one linked CSS file (`a08/style.css`), and one linked JavaScript file (`a08/script.js`). Open these files and skim their contents. 

3. Open a terminal in the a08 assignment directory and initialize a new npm project using `npm init`.

4. Use `npm install` to install the package `axios`. Refer to a02 or [the official Axios documentation](https://github.com/axios/axios#installing) if you need to review installing packages with npm.

5. Link the downloaded Axios library to the index.html file. To do this, find the Axios `TODO` comment in `a08/index.html` and add a `<script>` tag with `src` attribute pointing to the correct Axios `.js` file, located somewhere in the `a08/node_modules/axios` folder.

> **Hint**: If you're having trouble finding the correct file to link, refer to a02 and/or a04 to reread the process that we used to link to Bulma and jQuery. The Axios code is organized very similarly to jQuery; there is a special `dist` folder containing the relevant "distribution" Axios code.

6. Run `browser-sync -sw` to start the Browsersync local development server. This should automatically open a new browser tab showing the contents of `a08/index.html`.

> Note: If you get a `command not found` error, it likely means you have not installed Browsersync as a global npm package. Go back to Section 5.4 in Assignment a02 to see what it means to install packages globally, and follow the instructions to install Browsersync as a global npm package.


## 2. Using Axios


### 2.1 A simple request

All the functionality provided by the Axios library comes packaged in a single object named `axios`. In particular, the `axios` object is a function. When you call it, the library automatically initiates an HTTP call for you according to the configuration you specify as arguments to the function. Here's a simple example of what this might look like in code:

```javascript
const result = await axios({
    method: 'get',
    url: 'https://comp426fa19.cs.unc.edu/a08/heroes',
});
```

This tells Axios to make a GET request to `https://comp426fa19.cs.unc.edu/a08/heroes`, and store the response in the `result` variable.

But wait! You may have noticed the `await` keyword in front of the function call to `axios()`. *This means that `axios()` is actually an async function*! That's right---a call to `axios()` actually returns a *promise* that resolves once the response is received from the server. This is fantastic news, because it means we can take advantage of the simple async/await syntax with Axios and can avoid using callbacks! It also makes total sense: HTTP requests are perfect candidates for promises and async/await because they are I/O-bound operations that take time to complete.


### 2.2. The HTTP response

Once the `axios()` promise resolves, the data that was received in the HTTP response will be automatically stored in the `result` variable. Here's an example of what `result` may look like, taken directly from [the Axios documentation](https://github.com/axios/axios#response-schema).

```javascript
console.log(result);
{
  data: {},         // `data` is the response that was provided by the server
  
  status: 200,      // `status` is the HTTP status code from the server response
  
  statusText: 'OK', // `statusText` is the HTTP status message from the server response
  
  headers: {},      // `headers` the headers that the server responded with
                    // All header names are lower cased
               
  config: {},       // `config` is the config that was provided to `axios` for the request
  
  request: {}       // `request` is the request that generated this response
                    // It is the last ClientRequest instance in node.js (in
                    // redirects) and an XMLHttpRequest instance the browser
}
```

Some of these descriptions may be familiar to you from KMP's lecture about the HTTP protocol. In fact, `status`, `statusText`, `data`, and `headers` directly correspond to [the parts of an HTTP response as mandated by the HTTP protocol](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Overview#Responses):
* `status` - a status code sent by the server which is a 3-digit number indicating whether the request was successful
* `statusText` - a human-readable description sent by the server describing whether the request was successful
* `headers` - The HTTP response headers sent by the server
* `data` - The optional body of the HTTP response, containing JSON, HTML, XML, text, or any other data that the server sends back

The `config` and `request` parts of the Axios response are less important, as they just provide information about the HTTP request that was originally made in order to produce the given response.


### 2.3. More HTTP request options

The HTTP request that we made in Section 2.1 was quite simple: it only specified the HTTP verb (`post`) and the URL (`https://comp426fa19.cs.unc.edu/a08/heroes`) that we were requesting. However, Axios actually provides a huge list of configuration options to help you formulate your HTTP request just right. The official documentation provides [a complete list of all the Axios request options](https://github.com/axios/axios#request-config). There are a lot of settings in that list, and it can look a bit overwhelming. Keep in mind that settings are optional, so you only really need to add settings that you specifically want. Settings can be specified by adding them to the `axios()` function's argument.

Here is a non-exhaustive list of the most commonly used Axios request settings:

```javascript
const result = await axios({
  // `url` is the server URL that will be used for the request
  url: 'https://comp426fa19.cs.unc.edu/a08/heroes',

  // `method` is the request method to be used when making the request
  method: 'get', // default

  // `headers` are custom headers to be sent
  headers: {'X-Requested-With': 'XMLHttpRequest'},

  // `params` are the URL parameters to be sent with the request
  // Must be a plain object or a URLSearchParams object
  params: {
    ID: 12345
  },

  // `data` is the data to be sent as the request body
  // Only applicable for request methods 'PUT', 'POST', and 'PATCH'
  // Must be of one of the following types:
  //   - string, plain object, ArrayBuffer, ArrayBufferView, URLSearchParams
  //   - Browser only: FormData, File, Blob
  //   - Node only: Stream, Buffer
  data: {
    firstName: 'Fred'
  },

  // `timeout` specifies the number of milliseconds before the request times out.
  // If the request takes longer than `timeout`, the request will be aborted.
  timeout: 1000, // default is `0` (no timeout)

  // `withCredentials` indicates whether or not cross-site Access-Control requests
  // should be made using credentials
  withCredentials: false, // default

  // `auth` indicates that HTTP Basic auth should be used, and supplies credentials.
  // This will set an `Authorization` header, overwriting any existing
  // `Authorization` custom headers you have set using `headers`.
  // Please note that only HTTP Basic auth is configurable through this parameter.
  // For Bearer tokens and such, use `Authorization` custom headers instead.
  auth: {
    username: 'janedoe',
    password: 's00pers3cret'
  },

  // `responseType` indicates the type of data that the server will respond with
  // options are: 'arraybuffer', 'document', 'json', 'text', 'stream'
  //   browser only: 'blob'
  responseType: 'json', // default

  // `onUploadProgress` allows handling of progress events for uploads
  onUploadProgress: function (progressEvent) {
    // Do whatever you want with the native progress event
  },

  // `onDownloadProgress` allows handling of progress events for downloads
  onDownloadProgress: function (progressEvent) {
    // Do whatever you want with the native progress event
  }
});
```

Most likely, the only request settings you're required to use for COMP 426 are `method`, `url`, `headers`, `params`, `data`, and `withCredentials`.

* `method` - The HTTP verb to use when sending the request (`'get'`, `'post'`, `'patch'`, `'put'`, or `'delete'`).

* `url` - The URL of the server that should receive the request.

* `headers` - An object of HTTP request headers that should be sent with the request.

* `params` - An object of key-value pairs that should be sent to the server as part of the URL using GET parameters (see notes from lecture).

* `data` - Also an object specifying data that should be sent to the server; however, information specified in `data` will be passed to the server in the **body** of the HTTP request, not in the URL. This is traditionally used for `post`, `put`, or `patch` requests, but it can be used in any situation where you want to pass data to the server in a way that is a little more hidden than having it show up directly in the URL.

* `withCredentials` - A boolean value that is beyond the scope of the course, but which you'll need to set to `true` when making HTTP requests in the next assignment (a09).


### 2.4. HTTP request with data

Finally, here's a simple example of a POST request to the server where data is sent in the body of the HTTP request.

```javascript
const result = await axios({
	method: 'post',
    url: 'https://comp426fa19.cs.unc.edu/a08/people',
	data: {
		first: 'Aaron',  // This is the data that
		last: 'Smith'    // will be sent to the server
	}
});
```


## 3. Chrome DevTools Inspector


## 4. HTTP Error Handling


## 5. Submission Requirements
